doc/phonestrument_puredata_doc.asciidoc, before:

= Phonestrument Backend Puredata patch
Denis Crowdy

The main base patch is phonestrument.pd

scale_struct is an array that contains the semitone sequence information for
the base scale (so 2212221 for major). This array is contained in the subpatch
"pd scale_chord_arrays" Along with arrays derived from it - so the scale
calculated in midinotes (array scale) and the array holding chordtones
(chordtones).

"arp1chordttones", "arp2chordttones", "arp3chordttones", "arp4chordttones" hold
the changing chord tone information for the four layers of the arpeggio player.

The array "chordtones" is currently unused.

The array "blockchordtones" is currently unused.

== pd scalewriter

This subpatch receives the message "key", which is a midinote representing the
root of the scale (so 24 for C), then generates midinotes in an ascending scale
in that key into the array "scale".

== pd arpchordtone_calc

Calculates midinotes for particular chords and any modifications to them
(raising the third, flattening the 7th, for example). This is called by the
arpeggioplayer.

The subpatch has two main sections - the main block on the left that generates
standard diatonic chordtones, and the block on the right that then modifies the
generated chordtones with any accidentals (so raised third for secondary
dominants, for example).

image:images/arpchordtone_calc.png[arpchordtone_calc subpatch]

== pd blockchordtone_calc

Currenty unused.

== pd chordtone_calc

Currenty unused.



//image:images/initial_idea.png[Initial idea]

Commit message:

Change position of muting controls
Did this so that the arpeggio is always playing, as it sends info about
modifed chordtones that is needed by the bass player.

doc/phonestrument_puredata_doc.asciidoc, after:

= Phonestrument Backend Puredata patch
Denis Crowdy

The main base patch is phonestrument.pd

scale_struct is an array that contains the semitone sequence information for
the base scale (so 2212221 for major). This array is contained in the subpatch
"pd scale_chord_arrays" Along with arrays derived from it - so the scale
calculated in midinotes (array scale) and the array holding chordtones
(chordtones).

"arp1chordttones", "arp2chordttones", "arp3chordttones", "arp4chordttones" hold
the changing chord tone information for the four layers of the arpeggio player.

The array "chordtones" is currently unused.

The array "blockchordtones" is currently unused.

== pd scalewriter

This subpatch receives the message "key", which is a midinote representing the
root of the scale (so 24 for C), then generates midinotes in an ascending scale
in that key into the array "scale".

== pd arpchordtone_calc

Calculates midinotes for particular chords and any modifications to them
(raising the third, flattening the 7th, for example). This is called by the
arpeggioplayer.

The subpatch has two main sections - the main block on the left that generates
standard diatonic chordtones, and the block on the right that then modifies the
generated chordtones with any accidentals (so raised third for secondary
dominants, for example).

image:images/arpchordtone_calc.png[arpchordtone_calc subpatch]

== pd blockchordtone_calc

Currenty unused.

== pd chordtone_calc

Currenty unused.

== General

The arpeggio player needs to be triggered before the bass palyer as it sends
out modified 3rd info that the bass player uses.


//image:images/initial_idea.png[Initial idea]
